[Music]
what would happen if you swallowed some
chewing gum then excuse me let me take
the gum out
I'll cast stick it on the microphone
there we go our world is full of
mysteries and it keeps us wondering
wondering and trying to find answers to
the most important questions who are we
why are we here is there life on Mars
and most importantly what would happen
if you swallow chewing gum now you
probably thought you have the last one
perfectly answered by your parents for
you long ago
seven years of bad luck well you can't
possibly feel lucky with a chewing gum
stuck in your stomach it's exactly for
how long you were told it would stay
there or maybe you don't even have those
seven years because your stomach will
explode and then you did swallow that
chewing gum of yours and survived were
you a lucky exception or is it just
normal to feel perfectly fine after you
swallowed gum Brightside has the right
answer to the stickiest question of all
times and we are about to share it with
you now to understand the phenomenon of
the chewing gum better let's start with
its history when do you think it first
came around 1950s earlier 1900s nope it
has in fact been around since ancient
times it turns out people in northern
Europe have been chewing on birch bark
great-grandmother of chewing gum 9,000
years ago it gave them pleasure and help
relieve tooth aches and wait for it
their bark was worse than their bites
I'm sorry I just couldn't resist
something chewing gum like was called
chicka Lee
and the ancient Maya and Aztecs just
loved it
however only children and single women
could chew it in public while men
secretly used it to clean their teeth
well that's interesting today we no
longer have to hide it but who knows if
it's a bad thing or a good thing
the first chewing gum Factory in the
world was opened in the early 1850s can
you guess where it happened yes Willy
Wonka's factory no no it was in the
United States made to be more precise
European settlers who started it took
the idea from native Indians and first
used spruce resin for gum production
however it didn't taste so great and was
soon replaced by paraffin wax in the
20th century manufacturing and selling
chewing gum became a very profitable
business William Wrigley Jr for example
became one of the wealthiest men in
America thanks to his stinky produce
it's hard to find someone who has never
tried chewing on juicy fruit or
Wrigley's spearmint these two gum brands
were launched in 1893 he made so much
money he used to own a baseball club in
Chicago and today Wrigley Field still
carries his name chewing gum became so
popular and there's been a lot of
competition in the chewing gum business
ever since manufacturers are getting
more and more creative and develop new
sorts and kinds chewing gum fans also
get creative and competitive and set
world gum related records a guy named
Trevor Cummings for example stretched a
piece of gum 564 inches long he had
nothing better to do can you do better
it's worth a try sometimes chewing gum
fans get together in groups of 737
people in fact that was a registered
Guinness world record set in Madrid
Spain on 27 September 2014 so how did
they get that record by passing the same
piece of gum around 700 times each
chewing in succession that would be
gross do you think there's any chance
any of these people swallow the gum
instead of just chewing it
you think any of them ended up spending
seven years with gum stuck inside their
stomachs we are about to answer that
burning sticky question and find out if
it actually burns and sticks at the same
time as its name itself suggests chewing
gum is designed for chewing not eating
it is made out of gum base sweeteners
coloring and flavoring the gum base is a
mixed of elastomers resins fats and mosa
furs and waxes all of those are pretty
hard to digest now let us imagine you
accidentally swallowed some gum what
happens next well it turns out the gum
will go through your body just like any
other food but the journey will be
longer since it's harder to digest how
much longer well that's a good question
you've probably heard that if you
swallow an apple seed it can stay inside
your stomach long enough to grow an
apple tree and that's a story for
another time does it also mean that if
you swallow a chewing gum you will turn
into a gum producing Factory
no and no so what actually happens
inside your body when gum is passing
through your saliva will be the first to
try and save you once the gum gets in
[Music]
then your digestive system will do its
best to protect you you remember how it
helped you process that steak that you
had yeah same thing and it won't let you
down in a gum crisis either your liver
will help to remove the coloring to
prevent allergies your stomach will use
hydrochloric acid to break down
sweeteners flavoring and the sticky base
[Music]
then a couple of days later the remnants
of the gum will find their way through
the intestines and out your body easy
naturally and with no pain whatsoever in
other words it's official you will
survive it is hard to say exactly when
it will leave your body because every
digestive system has its capability but
it will for sure be sooner than seven
years seven months or even seven days
now does it mean it is cool to chew and
swallow swallow and chew not exactly it
won't kill you but it won't make you
stronger either because it has no
nutritional value also if you swallow a
huge wad of gum
it'll make you choke but that is true
for any other food so you should not
just be aware of the gum in extremely
rare cases chewing gum can also cause a
plugging in your digestive system it is
more likely to happen to kids because
their digestive tract is of smaller
diameter than that of adults so the best
advice we can give you is chewing on
your gum for as long as it has that
amazing flavor and then please dispose
of properly don't just spit it out
don't stick it under the table or a
chair or on that doorknob because you
know what gums around sticks around did
you enjoy watching this video I hope so
then please give us a thumbs up and
click subscribe to join us on the bright
side of life
[Music]